Introduction.
CHAPTER 1.
Introduction
1.1 Background
The acoustic analysis of submerged three dimensional structures is of great interest to en-
gineers. Such an elasto-acoustic analysis can be applied to a variety of engineering problems;
for example the determination of the sound fields generated by aircraft or underwater vehicles
and the design of transducers and acoustic shielding. The potential theory behind the acoustic
problem is also directly applicable to elasto-statics, electromagnetism, hydrodynamics, inviscid
flow and so on. In general the analysis involves solving the dynamic structural response simul-
taneously with the acoustic response, where the two are coupled by a fluid structure interaction.
Standard texts in acoustics (e.g. Junger and Feit [1986], Pierce [1989]) present well estab-
lished analytical solutions for simple structures. Morse and Feshbach (1953] list eleven coordinate
systems which allow analytical treatment and Kellog [1929) presents the classical theory behind
such analysis. Early work in acoustics concentrated on such analytical results. As an example
Wiener (1951] published results for thin plate problems and Spence and Granger [1951] presented
analytical results for rigid spheroids.
However analytical results are restricted to a narrow range of geometries. For the vast
majority of realistic problems, a closed form analytical solution does not exist. Before the advent
of digital computers, experimental testing and asymptotic approximations were the only analysis
tools available for arbitrary structures. The availability of high speed computers meant that
complex acoustic problems could be solved efficiently and accurately using numerical methods.
The finite element method (FEM) is recognized as a extremely powerful analytical tool
that can be used to solve most well defined continuum problems. It is strongly associated with
structural analysis, but its application to other areas is wide spread. Consequently it was only
natural that it should be applied to the full elasto acoustic problem and indeed much work has
been done in that area. A modern application of the FEM in acoustics is given by Pinsky and
Abboud [1990), who consider the transient analysis of the exterior acoustics problem.
A FEM analysis of the acoustic problem is hampered by a number of difficulties. The acous-
tic problems of greatest interest are often those involving a fluid of infinite extent. Discretization
page 18


--- Page 18 ---