Acoustic Problem.
For all but simple boundary geometries it is impossible to predict the values of kn. There-
fore it is highly desirable to implement a strategy that will eliminate the problem of the ill-
conditioning of the numerical formulation in the region of critical wavenumbers. Several strate-
gies have been proposed all of which unfortunately increase the computational burden of the
problem.
2.4.2 The CHIEF method
One of the first methods proposed to remove the problem of non-uniqueness was that of
Schenck (1968]. In this method the algebraic equations generated from the SHIE are combined
with additional equations generated from the interior Helmholtz' relationship,
evaluated at a number of interior points. The resulting overdetermined set of equations can be
solved by a least squares method.
There are several problems with this method. When some of the interior points lie on
nodal surfaces it has been shown that this method may not remove the problem of uniqueness.
Consequently, at high frequencies when the density of interior nodal surfaces is high, the choice
of interior nodal position is difficult. Several methods for choosing these nodal points have been
proposed but this adds to the complexity of the solution. For an arbitrary selection of interior
points this method cannot be relied on to remove the problem of non-uniqueness.
2.4.3 Burton and Miller's Formulation
Burton and Miller proposed (1971] that the problem of uniqueness could be overcome by
forming a linear combination of the SHIE and DSHIE. This linear combination is given by,
Burton and Miller demonstrated that for an imaginary coupling constant a, this formulation
should yield a unique solution for all wavenumbers.
The disadvantage of this formulation is that the kernel of the Ne operator is highly singular
and a method needs to be used in order to integrate this operator numerically.
page 38
(de (P) - B(P).
PED,
(2.4.3)
(2.4.4)


--- Page 38 ---

Acoustic Problem.
2.4.4 Boundary layer formulations
The boundary layer formulations for the exterior acoustic problem also exhibit similar non-
uniqueness properties at the critical wavenumbers described above. A similar argument to show
this non-uniqueness to that for the SHIE and DSHIE can be used. However another argument
is illustrated in figures (2.3) and (2.4). These arguments use the jump properties of the integral
operators derived in section (1.2.2),
Single layer:
Double layer:
The single layer formulation proves to be non-unique at eigenvalues of the interior Dirichlet
problem and the double layer formulation proves to be non-unique at eigenvalues of the interior
Neumann problem.
2.4.5 Hybrid boundary layer formulation
The established technique for overcoming the problem of uniqueness in a boundary layer
formulation is to express the surface velocity potential in terms of a hybrid combination of a
single and double layer surface distribution. The exterior velocity potential is defined by,
Consequently the boundary integral equations defining the acoustic problem are,
If the coupling constant, a is constrained to be imaginary, then the numerical solution of
this hybrid formulation is unique at all frequencies. Again the disadvantage of this formulation
is that it requires the integration of the hypersingular kernel in the Ne operator.
page 39
- + (1 - c(P))H = M%H H=-до- - c(P)M.
(2.4.5)
(2.4.6)
4+ - (1 - c(p))0=1140=0+c(p)o,
(2.4.7)
дф+
др-
_= Nko=an
(2.4.8)
Ф(P) = [Ck + aMk](2](P),
РЕЕ.
(2.4.9)
0= fLk taMk+ (1-c(P))$0,
(2.4.10)
(2.4.11)


--- Page 39 ---