Acoustic Problem.
The consequence of this condition is that it allows outward travelling waves to be the only valid
physical solution for a radiated or scattered wave from a surface.
Eq. (2.1.10), Eq. (2.1.11) and Eq (2.1.13) uniquely define the acoustic problem. For
some simple geometries it is possible to solve the acoustic problem analytically, however for the
majority of realistic problems a numerical solution technique is needed. Analytical solutions for
certain problems are useful in establishing the accuracy of various numerical strategies used to
solve the acoustic problem.
At this stage the concept of a velocity potential function will be defined. This function
enables the fluid velocity and pressure fields to be evaluated from one potential function. The
function is defined by,
with,
2.2 Integral Operators
This work is concerned with various methods of numerical solution by means of boundary
element methods. Later in this chapter the appropriate integral equations will be derived that
form the basis of any BEM. The integral operators that will combine to give an integral for-
mulation of the acoustic problem are introduced in this section and a brief discussion of their
numerical properties is presented in isolation from the physical problem.
2.2.1 Green's Function
In general when a differential equation is transformed into an integral equation, the form of
the integral equation not only depends on the governing differential equation, but the boundary
conditions specific to the problem. An integral equation not only relates an unknown function
page 28
- ilp) ds=0
(2.1.13)
Т ф + к'ф =0,
(2.1.14)
i = Пф,
₽ = iwp.
(2.1.15)


--- Page 28 ---

Acoustic Problem.
to its derivatives; ie values at neighbouring points, but also to its values at the boundary. The
boundary conditions are built into an integral equation through the form of its ernel, but for
a differential equation the boundary conditions are imposed at the final stage of solution. This
kernel is the Green's function for the problem.
For the acoustic problem, the Green's function is the fundamental solution of the inhomo
geneous Helmholtz' equation.
where S(P, Q) is the delta-dirac function. Also the Green's function must satisfy Sommerfeld's
radiation condition, Eq. (1.1.13). The appropriate solution in three dimensions is given by,
In this equation r is the Euclidean distance between the field points P and Q.
2.2.2 Discontinuities
The integral operators that are of interest are defined by.
The function & is assumed to be a continuous function over S. For completeness there is also
the identity operator,
An important property of these operators defined in Eq. (2.2.3-6) is that they are all solutions of
the original acoustic differential equation. Each can be thought of as the result of a continuous
distribution of sources, magnitude d(Q), over the surface of S.
page 29
(72+42) Gk(P, Q) = -8(P.Q).
(2.2.1)
r=P-QI.
(2.2.2)
ME lo(P) = / *GK(P,Q)
ang
дпр
2n, дпр
(2.2.3)
(2.2.4)
(2.2.5)
(2.2.6)
[[Ф)(Р) = ф(Р).
(2.2.7)


--- Page 29 ---