Acoustic Problem.
The exterior velocity potential is given by Eq. (2.3.16) .
2.4 Uniqueness of Boundary Integral Formulations
2.4.1 SHIE and DSHIE formulations
For given boundary conditions the velocity potential for the exterior problem is unique.
However it has long been recognized that when expressed in terms of a boundary integral
formulation the solution to the exterior problem may not be unique. Non-uniqueness of the
solution occurs at critical wavenumbers kn, and for the acoustic problem these wavenumbers
correspond to interior resonant frequencies.It needs to be emphasized that this problem of
non-uniqueness does not imply non-uniqueness of a physical solution, but a breakdown of the
theoretical formulation at critical frequencies. A numerical implementation of an unmodified
exterior boundary integral formulation will result in ill-conditioning of the matrices at a range
of frequencies, centered around the critical frequency.
The problem of non-uniqueness can be illustrated by considering the exterior Neumann
problem, Eq. (2.3.11), for a 'smooth surface'. There will be a unique solution as long as there
are no non-trivial solutions to the homogeneous equation,
The non-trivial solutions to this equation occur at the eigenvalues kn. By the Fredholm Alter-
native theorems, the eigenvalue spectrum of this equation is the same as that of the transpose
The eigenvalues of this equation correspond to the eigenvalues for the unrelated interior Neu-
mann problem, Eq (2.3.9). Simiarly the critical wavenumbers for the exterior Dirichlet problem
correspond to the eigenvalues of the interior Dirichlet problem.
page 37
0 = 11k + (1 - c(p))|0.
(2.3.18)
(2.4.1)
of,
+ MA) =0.
(2.4.2)


--- Page 37 ---

Acoustic Problem.
For all but simple boundary geometries it is impossible to predict the values of kn. There-
fore it is highly desirable to implement a strategy that will eliminate the problem of the ill-
conditioning of the numerical formulation in the region of critical wavenumbers. Several strate-
gies have been proposed all of which unfortunately increase the computational burden of the
problem.
2.4.2 The CHIEF method
One of the first methods proposed to remove the problem of non-uniqueness was that of
Schenck (1968]. In this method the algebraic equations generated from the SHIE are combined
with additional equations generated from the interior Helmholtz' relationship,
evaluated at a number of interior points. The resulting overdetermined set of equations can be
solved by a least squares method.
There are several problems with this method. When some of the interior points lie on
nodal surfaces it has been shown that this method may not remove the problem of uniqueness.
Consequently, at high frequencies when the density of interior nodal surfaces is high, the choice
of interior nodal position is difficult. Several methods for choosing these nodal points have been
proposed but this adds to the complexity of the solution. For an arbitrary selection of interior
points this method cannot be relied on to remove the problem of non-uniqueness.
2.4.3 Burton and Miller's Formulation
Burton and Miller proposed (1971] that the problem of uniqueness could be overcome by
forming a linear combination of the SHIE and DSHIE. This linear combination is given by,
Burton and Miller demonstrated that for an imaginary coupling constant a, this formulation
should yield a unique solution for all wavenumbers.
The disadvantage of this formulation is that the kernel of the Ne operator is highly singular
and a method needs to be used in order to integrate this operator numerically.
page 38
(de (P) - B(P).
PED,
(2.4.3)
(2.4.4)


--- Page 38 ---