Introduction.
Many researchers, including the author, believe that the superposition method is simply an
ill-conditioned form of the BEM, and singularities in the integral equations are an unavoidable
consequence of optimizing the numerical robustness and conditioning of the problem. This is
the motivation behind a recently submitted paper (Jeans and Mathews 1991]).
1.2 Motivation of Present Thesis
The original motivation for this thesis was to develop and refine the current state of the
art computational approaches used for the prediction of radiated sound. After three years of
research the following areas have been documented in this thesis:
(a) Development of a computationally efficient implementation of the Helmholtz' in-
tegral equations for three dimensional structures of arbitrary geometry, including
thin plate problems.
i) Comparison and development of variational and collocation formulations.
iii) Frequency interpolation of fluid matrices.
(b) Coupling of a consistent FEM formulation of the thin shell and plate structural
problem to the boundary element formulations.
i) Comparison of modal and Lanczos reduction of the structural formula-
tions to improve solution efficiency.
A general review of the acoustic problem, along with the development of the various integral
formulations, is given in Chapter 2. In Chapter 3 a collocation approach is presented for the
numerical solution of the Burton and Miller formulation of the exterior acoustic problem. This
work describes a novel approach to the hypersingular integral operator, based on the expression
of the integral operator given by Maue (1949]. This approach is very similar to the work of Wu,
Seybert and Wan [1991], but without their additional regularization procedures. The resulting
numerical implementation is applied to spherical, spheroidal and cylindrical rigid radiation and
scattering problems.
In Chapter 4 the variational method of Mariem and Hamdi [1987) for approximation of
the hypersingular integral operator is described and numerically implemented using quadratic
isoparametric boundary elements. The resulting thin shell acoustic formulation is applied to
page 23
il) The use of quadratic isoparametric elements.


--- Page 23 ---

Introduction.
different closed and open thin shell problems and compared to the collocation formulation of
the thin shell acoustic problem.
With renewed interest in superposition formulation of the acoustic problem, Chapter 5 is
devoted to an examination of these methods. It was felt that these methods were not suitable
for the general acoustic analysis of arbitrary structures, due to the inherent instabilities of the
resulting integral expressions. Unfortunately to support this view point. a quantitative analysis
of the method involved a substantial and disproportionate amount of research effort. However
the examination of the superposition method in this chapter necessitated introducing topics
of matrix conditioning and accuracy of the general matrix routines that might not have been
included otherwise.
The FEM is introduced in Chapter 6, and the theory behind the thin shell structural prob-
lem used in this study is outlined. The coupling procedure between the structural and acoustic
problems is described, along with the various methodologies for solving the combined problem.
In this chapter eigenmode reduction of the structural problem and frequency interpolation of
the fluid matrices are described. The resulting implementations are tested with the spherical
shell problem for which there is an easily accessible analytical result, and results for a submerged
cantilever plate are also presented. Significant work is also presented, detailing the behaviour of
the general elasto-acoustic problem at critical frequencies.
Chapter 7 introduces the theory Lanczos vectors and describes their usefulness in coupled
elasto acoustic formulations. The resulting implementations are again applied to the spherical
test case and compared to corresponding eigenvector reduction techniques. A fluid added mass
formulation is described using the variational formulation of the thin shell acoustic problem,
and the resulting symmetric structural equation is reduced using Lanczos vectors.
The final chapter is a summary of the thesis. Conclusions are made about the consequences
and effectiveness of the presented results and finally proposals for future work are presented
In Appendix I the application of acoustic and geometric symmetry, applied to the acoustic
boundary element problem is reviewed. Such use of symmetry is of considerable interest not
only for the reduction of problem size but for the treatment of half space problems. Summarized
in Appendix Il are the analytical techniques applied to the spherical elasto acoustic problem.
page 24


--- Page 24 ---

Acoustic Problem.
CHAPTER 2.
Acoustic Problem
2.1 Fundamental Equations
The analysis of any acoustic problem involves the solution of a differential equation relating
fluid variables in the medium of interest, subject to certain boundary conditions. This work is
primarily concerned with the interaction of acoustic radiation with submerged structures and
the appropriate differential equation is the linear wave equation subject to a velocity boundary
condition on the submerged structure.
2.1.1 Linear Approximation
In a fundamental analysis (Pierce (1989]) of the acoustic pressure field, the linear wave
equation is developed from a consideration of mass and energy conservation. This analysis
assumes that the acoustic pressure field is a sinall amplitude perturbation to the ambient state,
characterized by those values that pressure, density and fluid velocity have when the perturbation
is absent. The fluid or acoustic medium is assumed to be homogeneous and quiescent; ie the
ambient quantities are assumed to be independent of position and time with the ambient fluid
velocity equal to zero.
Consider a body of fluid in a volume V, with density p, surrounded by a surface S. The
fluid velocity at a point P is given by w(P) and the outward normal to the surface S is defined
by n. Conservation of mass requires that the net mass leaving V per unit time is equal to the
rate at which mass decreases in V. This is expressed by the relationship,
The right hand side of this equation can be transformed to a volume integral by means of Gauss'
theorem and Euler's differential equation for conservation of mass is obtained,
The pressure field at a point P is given by p(P). By considering the forces acting on the
fluid, and neglecting body forces and viscosity, the fluid velocity and pressure are related by,
page 25
(2.1.1)
2P + T. (p) = 0.
at
(2.1.2)


--- Page 25 ---