Acoustic Problem.
2.3.3 Boundary Layer Formulations
It was stated in Section 2.2 that the result of the integral operators on a continuous function
defined on the surface S, was a solution of the acoustic wave equation. Further more with the
correct definition of the Green's function the solution satisfies the radiation condition. Conse-
quently it is possible to define the velocity potential in the exterior domain, E. in terms of a
single layer distribution, u,
By differentiating with respect to some normal vector, defined in the exterior domain, an ex-
pression for the dimensionless velocity field is obtained.
When the field point, P, is taken to the surface S, the boundary layer formulation for the
acoustic problem is defined by,
Eq. (2.3.15) can be solved to obtain the single layer density i, and then Eg. (2.3.13) can be
used to evaluate the exterior and surface velocity potentials.
In a similar way the exterior velocity potential can be defined in terms of a double layer
distribution, o,
The differentiated form is given by,
Since the Ne operator is continuous across the surface S, then Eq. (2.3.17) can be solved for
P ES and the surface velocity potential is defined by,
page 36
o(P) = Lk(e)(P),
PEE.
(2.3.13)
Q$(P) = MEW(P),
дпр
РЕЕ.
(2.3.14)
дф
an=M% - (1 - c(p))| M,
PES.
(2.3.15)
d(P) = MA(o](P), PEE.
(2.3.16)
PEE.
(2.3.17)
дпр


--- Page 36 ---

Acoustic Problem.
The exterior velocity potential is given by Eq. (2.3.16) .
2.4 Uniqueness of Boundary Integral Formulations
2.4.1 SHIE and DSHIE formulations
For given boundary conditions the velocity potential for the exterior problem is unique.
However it has long been recognized that when expressed in terms of a boundary integral
formulation the solution to the exterior problem may not be unique. Non-uniqueness of the
solution occurs at critical wavenumbers kn, and for the acoustic problem these wavenumbers
correspond to interior resonant frequencies.It needs to be emphasized that this problem of
non-uniqueness does not imply non-uniqueness of a physical solution, but a breakdown of the
theoretical formulation at critical frequencies. A numerical implementation of an unmodified
exterior boundary integral formulation will result in ill-conditioning of the matrices at a range
of frequencies, centered around the critical frequency.
The problem of non-uniqueness can be illustrated by considering the exterior Neumann
problem, Eq. (2.3.11), for a 'smooth surface'. There will be a unique solution as long as there
are no non-trivial solutions to the homogeneous equation,
The non-trivial solutions to this equation occur at the eigenvalues kn. By the Fredholm Alter-
native theorems, the eigenvalue spectrum of this equation is the same as that of the transpose
The eigenvalues of this equation correspond to the eigenvalues for the unrelated interior Neu-
mann problem, Eq (2.3.9). Simiarly the critical wavenumbers for the exterior Dirichlet problem
correspond to the eigenvalues of the interior Dirichlet problem.
page 37
0 = 11k + (1 - c(p))|0.
(2.3.18)
(2.4.1)
of,
+ MA) =0.
(2.4.2)


--- Page 37 ---