Acoustic Problem.
Since the fluid velocity and pressure are given by a linear differential equation, it is possible
to assume an harmonic time dependency of the form eur, where a is the circular frequency of
the pressure field. The time independent fluid variables are,
Substituting Eq. (2.1.9) into Eq. (2.1.8) results in the expression,
where the wave number k is w/c. This equation is linown as the reduced wave equation or
Helmholtz' equation
2.1.3 Neumann boundary condition
The reduced wave equation is solved in terms of the Neumann boundary condition which
relates the fluid velocity to the normal velocity prescribed on S. This boundary condition is
defined by,
where the subscript notation for the ambient density, p, is dropped and,
This boundary condition is sufficient for the solution of Helmholtz' equation for a finite
body of fluid. For unbounded fluid problems another boundary condition is needed to uniquely
specify the solution to Helmholtz' equation.
2.1.4 Sommerfeld's radiation condition
For unbounded acoustic problems the pressure field must obey some boundary condition
in the far field. This boundary condition is given by Sommerfeld's radiation condition. This is
defined by,
page 27
p = peiwt,
d=ve-iwt.
(2.1.9)
(2.1.10)
OP = iwpon,
(2.1.11)
др=n. Vp,
ûr = n• û.
(2.1.12)


--- Page 27 ---

Acoustic Problem.
The consequence of this condition is that it allows outward travelling waves to be the only valid
physical solution for a radiated or scattered wave from a surface.
Eq. (2.1.10), Eq. (2.1.11) and Eq (2.1.13) uniquely define the acoustic problem. For
some simple geometries it is possible to solve the acoustic problem analytically, however for the
majority of realistic problems a numerical solution technique is needed. Analytical solutions for
certain problems are useful in establishing the accuracy of various numerical strategies used to
solve the acoustic problem.
At this stage the concept of a velocity potential function will be defined. This function
enables the fluid velocity and pressure fields to be evaluated from one potential function. The
function is defined by,
with,
2.2 Integral Operators
This work is concerned with various methods of numerical solution by means of boundary
element methods. Later in this chapter the appropriate integral equations will be derived that
form the basis of any BEM. The integral operators that will combine to give an integral for-
mulation of the acoustic problem are introduced in this section and a brief discussion of their
numerical properties is presented in isolation from the physical problem.
2.2.1 Green's Function
In general when a differential equation is transformed into an integral equation, the form of
the integral equation not only depends on the governing differential equation, but the boundary
conditions specific to the problem. An integral equation not only relates an unknown function
page 28
- ilp) ds=0
(2.1.13)
Т ф + к'ф =0,
(2.1.14)
i = Пф,
₽ = iwp.
(2.1.15)


--- Page 28 ---