Acoustic Problem.
This equation represents an example of Reynolds' transport theorem.
The relationship between the pressure field and density in the fluid is obtained by making the
assumption that the acoustic radiation is adiabatic in the linear approximation. Consequently
it is possible to write,
The real constant c is refered to as the speed of sound in the particular fluid medium and
the subscript s in Eq. (2.1.4), indicates that the differential is evaluated at constant entropy.
Writing the pressure, density and velocity as small perturbations of the ambient state,
the linear differential equations governing these perturbations are defined as,
2.1.2 Wave Equation
The wave equation results when ' is eliminated from Eq. (2.1.6) and Eq. (2.1.7) . From
now on the prime notation will be neglected when indicating ambient state perturbations. The
wave equation is given by,
page 26
• (8)
(2.1.3)
ОР = С ОР
at it'
(2.1.4)
p=Po+p',
p= potp,
V=0.
(2.1.5)
др'
(2.1.6)
• = 0.
(2.1.7)
122р = 0.
(2.1.8)


--- Page 26 ---

Acoustic Problem.
Since the fluid velocity and pressure are given by a linear differential equation, it is possible
to assume an harmonic time dependency of the form eur, where a is the circular frequency of
the pressure field. The time independent fluid variables are,
Substituting Eq. (2.1.9) into Eq. (2.1.8) results in the expression,
where the wave number k is w/c. This equation is linown as the reduced wave equation or
Helmholtz' equation
2.1.3 Neumann boundary condition
The reduced wave equation is solved in terms of the Neumann boundary condition which
relates the fluid velocity to the normal velocity prescribed on S. This boundary condition is
defined by,
where the subscript notation for the ambient density, p, is dropped and,
This boundary condition is sufficient for the solution of Helmholtz' equation for a finite
body of fluid. For unbounded fluid problems another boundary condition is needed to uniquely
specify the solution to Helmholtz' equation.
2.1.4 Sommerfeld's radiation condition
For unbounded acoustic problems the pressure field must obey some boundary condition
in the far field. This boundary condition is given by Sommerfeld's radiation condition. This is
defined by,
page 27
p = peiwt,
d=ve-iwt.
(2.1.9)
(2.1.10)
OP = iwpon,
(2.1.11)
др=n. Vp,
ûr = n• û.
(2.1.12)


--- Page 27 ---